--- 
title: data Services to use Oracle Server 
sidebar: flexberry-orm_sidebar 
keywords: Flexberry ORM, data services, oracle 
summary: Features funktsionirovania and requirements OracleDataService 
toc: true 
permalink: en/fo_oracle-data-service.html 
lang: en 
autotranslated: true 
hash: 7632aed3e1ac594cad6823ada7c131d105c0f592edf1b8fde371aaed2ec6fdb5 
--- 

`OracleDataService` is [service data](fo_data-service.html) to work with the Oracle Server directly, bypassing ODBC; is an implementation of the [abstract class SQLDataService](fo_sql-data-service.html). 

When specifying OracleDataService as a service data string is used `ICSSoft.STORMNET.Business.OracleDataService, ICSSoft.STORMNET.Business.OracleDataService`. 

As for ORACLE, the concept of "dirty reads" and locks are out of date, with [DRDataService](fo_dr-data-service.html) also indicates the line `ICSSoft.STORMNET.Business.OracleDataService, ICSSoft.STORMNET.Business.OracleDataService`. 

## Requirements to components 

* If the application uses .NET Framework version is below 4.0, then to work with [`OracleDataService` requires Oracle client software](fo_tools-oracle-ds.html). 
This requirement is due to the fact that in this case, to create connections to Oracle DB using a class `System.Data.OracleClient.OracleConnection`. 
There are restrictions on the naming of directories that is using ORACLE. If to place in the directory name which contains special characters (dots, brackets), then everything might stop working. To remedy this situation, it is sufficient to rename the directory. 
* .NET Framework from version 4.0 to install the Oracle client software is not required. 
Working with compounds is carried out using `Oracle.ManagedDataAccess.Client.OracleConnection`. In this case, you must install nuget package 
[`Oracle.ManagedDataAccess`](http://nuget.ics.perm.ru/packages/Oracle.ManagedDataAccess/). 

## features of functioning 

Like any [service data](fo_data-service.html), `OracleDataService` supports the mapping of data types into account peculiarities of their use in specific DBMS. And also allows you to consider the following key requirements Oracle, including syntax: 

* The identifier length supported by ORACLE is limited to 30 bytes. Moreover, this limitation applies to both the names of database objects (i.e. included in the determination of the names of storage objects generator `Oracle SQL Generator` and data service `OracleDataService`), and aliases used in the query (ignored `OracleDataService`). 
In the formation of a short version of the name the ID generated by the baseline method, trimmed to the required length and is complemented with the hash to ensure uniqueness. 
* Identifiers are enclosed in double quotes. 
* The analogue of the function ifnull is the function NVL.
* A limit on the number of rows in the sample provided by using the key words `<nowiki>TOP</nowiki>` in the base `SQLDataService` is implemented by setting limits on `rownum` in terms `WHERE`. 

### Registronacional of strings in queries 

Search strings in databases Oracle by default is case sensitive, i.e., for example, when the query is executed 

``` sql
SELECT * FROM Table1 WHERE Field1='что-то'
``` 

the rows of a table Table1 where Field1 has the value 'something','SOMETHING',... in the sample output will not fall. 

To search case-insensitive, use the parameter [CaseInsensitive](fo_insensitivity-register-ds.html) configuration file. 

Cm. article [Processing registers object names to DBMS](fo_processing-registers-names.html). 



{% include callout.html content="Переведено сервисом «Яндекс.Переводчик» <http://translate.yandex.ru>" type="info" %}