--- 
title: Using WebFileControl on the edit forms 
sidebar: flexberry-aspnet_sidebar 
keywords: Flexberry ASP-NET, Web UI (Controls) 
toc: true 
permalink: en/fa_file-control-description.html 
lang: en 
autotranslated: true 
hash: f77d2953164cac2445b3a84eafc49121e49b40588052d8e679fc1fca2faa8aa4 
--- 

`WebFileControl` is located on [web forms editing](fa_editform.html) and allows you to upload files to the server. To download the file to the server just select the desired file and click `Сохранить`(`Сохранить and закрыть`) on the edit form. 
There is also the possibility to delete downloaded files by pressing the icon button `Очистить` have `WebFileControl`, and after saving the downloaded file will be deleted. 
All files are saved in a folder that is calculated relative to the root directory of the web application are determined through `UploadUrl` in the configuration file. 
Format `UploadUrl` the following: http://адрес:порт/UploadFolder where `UploadFolder `содержит a path relative to the root directory of your web application. `UploadUrl` is the only parameter that needs to be specified in the configuration file, needs to refer to a site folder. Each user has a private directory with the name under which the current logged-in user. 
After the file is uploaded to a server near `WebFileControl` the icon appears to the appropriate type files. If you downloaded the picture, it will display the picture itself. 

Server control `WebFileControl` works with the data type `WebFile`. Thus, by generating ASP.NET application using the plugin `ASPNET` for `WebFile `полей classes are generated by the controls `WebFileControl`. 

For use `WebFileControl` must be installed the current version `BaseEditForm `(actual installed nuget packages), and you also need to add the required `UploadUrl `в configuration file of the web application. 

You can not use `WebFileControl` directly in `AiaxGroupEdit`. You must create a separate master where to place a field of type `WebFile`. Then `AiaxGroupEdit` will be selected lucapa the master, and it already will be working with files. 



{% include callout.html content="Переведено сервисом «Яндекс.Переводчик» <http://translate.yandex.ru>" type="info" %}